The ability to legally obtain it free of cost even for commercial use.
Linux® also tends to require fewer resources than Microsoft Windows, often allowing it to be deployed on legacy hardware.
It is often chosen by people who prefer to use less popular software because it is seldom targeted by malicious programs, or malware, such as a virus, a worm, a mail bomb, spyware, adware and trojan horses.
Linux® offers versatility, power, freedom, stability and bundled softwares.
The Linux® operating system has literally hundreds of versions known as distributions, which are also called distros, or flavors.
For example, Tiny Core Linux® has a file size of only about 10 megabytes, making it one of the smallest distributions in the world.
It has the advantage of running on a legacy Personal Computer (PC) even without a hard disk and offers total customization by being a bare bones system.
It is very important to understand that each of the numerous distributions of Linux® vary greatly,. All of them tend to be less susceptible to malware, use fewer resources, come with bundled software, offer freedom from restrictive user licenses and are very stable, especially the server editions.
Fedora Linux® operating system comes bundled with a host of software programs. Powerful Microsoft Word®-compatible software for word processing, spreadsheets, database management, presentations and project management are just a few of the programs that could be bundled.
It is an open-source operating system that usually is based not just on the Linux® kernel but also on what is known as "GNU/Linux."
Some distributions are 100 percent open source and can be downloaded legally free of charge and deployed on as many machines as the user wishes.
The versatility and freedom of this system lie in the fact that it is open source. This means that anyone with programming knowledge can legally see and modify the code, even to the creation of another distribution that the programmer can offer free of charge or for a fee.
The ability to view the code has an important advantage over closed-source Microsoft Windows® because administrators do not have to wait for the release of proprietary software patches to keep a system secure. Finally, software can be installed and uninstalled without rebooting the system.
